{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2003\fnil Capitals;}{\f2004\fnil Sand;}{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2006\fnil Techno;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2013\fnil Hoefler Text;}{\f2018\fnil Hoefler Text Ornaments;}{\f2039\fnil Impact;}{\f2040\fnil Skia;}{\f2305\fnil Textile;}{\f2307\fnil Gadget;}{\f2311\fnil Apple Chancery;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f7102\fnil Andale Mono;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f12077\fnil Arial Black;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f14213\fnil Webdings;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}{\f18432\fnil Arial Hebrew;}{\f18433\fnil New Peninim MT;}{\f18610\fnil Corsiva Hebrew;}{\f18750\fnil Raanana Hebrew;}{\f19459\fnil Geneva CY;}{\f19460\fnil Monaco CY;}{\f19461\fnil Charcoal CY;}{\f19492\fnil Helvetica CY;}{\f19540\fnil Times CY;}{\f32525\fnil VT100;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s247\fi-1584\li1584\sb240\sa60\tx1584 \f2001\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\s248\fi-1440\li1440\sb240\sa60\tx1440 \i\f2010 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s249\fi-1296\li1296\sb240\sa60\tx1296 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s250\fi-1152\li1152\sb240\sa60\tx1152 \b\f2010\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s251\fi-1008\li1008\sb240\sa60\tx1008 \b\i\f2010\fs26 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s252\fi-864\li864\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx864 \b\f2010\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\f2010 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\fi-360\li360 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext1 Body Text 2;}{\s2\fi-540\li540 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext2 Body Text Indent 2;}{\s3\fi-720\li540 \f2010 \sbasedon0\snext3 Body Text Indent 3;}{\s4\qc\sb240\sa60 \b\f2001\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext4 caption;}{\s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 \sbasedon0\snext5 concepts;}}{\info{\title Text Information Retrieval Systems}{\author Meadow}}\margl1440\margr1440\ftnbj \sectd \linemod0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \s4\sb240\sa60 \b\f2001\fs32 Meadow: Text Information Retrieval Systems\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 1\tab Introduction\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.1\tab What is Information?\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol)(out: information)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Information is a collection of organized symbols that together make up a structure.  The users are able to access the information because they understand the symbols and structure.  It is the people using the symbols that give it meaning.  The field of information retrieval (IR) is interested in how information is represented.  This includes understanding the symbols and structure of information as well as determining similarities between different sets of symbols.  \par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.2\tab What is Information Retrieval?\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: query)(out: information retrieval, information retrieval system)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 IR is the process of taking stored information and finding a specific piece of information needed by a person.  This is done through a query.  The concept of selectivity is very important.  The user does not want to be given lots of useless information.  The specific user need has to be answered.  IR is also thought of as a communication process, where the authors of documents are able to communicate with their readers.  An information retrieval system (IRS) is a computer-based information retrieval system.  Interactive IR is basically an IRS where information is flowing between the user and the database.  Previously, the major problem facing IR was determining how to represent documents.  The focus has now switched to determining how to match a user\rquote s information need to the documents stored in the database.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.3\tab How Does Information Retrieval Work?\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: user, intermediary)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are two groups of people involved in IR.  The first group is the users.  These are the people who use an IRS to satisfy an information need.  The second group is the people who gather information for retrieval at a later date.  Both these groups interact with the IRS.  The users interact with the IRS through an intermediary.  This person\rquote s role is to help users satisfy their information need.  The database producer is fluent with what information is already available and what information is needed.  This enables him to gather useful information and store it in the database.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.3.1\tab The User Sequence\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: user, intermediary, anomalous state of knowledge, query)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 This sequence explains the defined steps necessary for communication between the user and the IRS.  First, the user determines that they have an information need.  This is sometimes called an anomalous state of knowledge (ASK).  The user may not have a clear-cut definition of what they need, but they know that they need something.  The need is expressed to an intermediary who determines a strategy to fulfill the need.  Miscommunication can occur during this portion of the process.  From the strategy created, the intermediary formulates a query to retrieve the information from the IRS.  Lastly the computer processes the query.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.3.2\tab The Database Producer Sequence\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)(out: database producer)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The database producer\rquote s main goal is to create a database.  There are several steps involved in this process.  First the decision to create a database must be made.  The next step is to determine the scope of the database.  This puts some limits on what kind of information will be stored.  Next, individual records must be designed.  What pieces of information will be stored for each entity.  The selection of actual items to be included is done next.  Next the content of the individual records is created.  The last two steps are data entry and quality control.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.3.3\tab Query Processing\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: query)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx0 \f2010 There are several steps needed to process a query.  First they query must be interpreted.  The terms are parsed out and are then looked up in the index.  All records that match the query are identified.  The user is told how many records were retrieved and is given several options.  The user can browse the records, look up other search terms in the index, or revise the query.  The retrieved records are prepared for presentation and sent to the user.  In some cases the user is charged a fee for each query.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.3.4\tab Why the Process Is Not Perfect\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: attribute, indexer)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 There are many reasons why the process is not perfect.  In many cases the user is unsure of the exact information need.  The user may not understand the structure the information.  For example, they may not know what attributes and values are used in the database.  The indexer of the information may have incorrectly judged what a document is about.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.4\tab Who Uses Information Retrieval?\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Many different groups of people use IR.  They are information specialists, reference librarians, professional persons, end users, and novices.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.4.1\tab Information Specialists\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information specialist)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Information Specialists help other people satisfy their information needs.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.4.2\tab End Users\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: end user)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 End Users are involved in a profession that is very dependent on information.  This group of people has knowledge in a specific area.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.4.3\tab Novices\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Novices are those users who do not have knowledge of a specific subject matter and are not very skilled in information evaluation techniques.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.5\tab What are the Problems in IRS Design and Use?\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Design and behavioral problems are both present in IRS.  It is noted that many design problems are cause by a lack of understanding user behavior as well as an inability to train users.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.5.1\tab Design\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: user interface)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are many different aspects to IRS design.  One aspect is the representation and organization of information in the database.  It is important that the user understand the information structure.  The user interface is also an important aspect.  In some cases the user interface is used to eliminate the need for the user to know the information structure.  Query management programs are used to interpret what the user needs.  Data management programs are important to system functioning.  Presentation to the user is also an important aspect.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.5.2\tab Understanding User Behavior\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Understanding user behavior is very difficult.  It makes design more difficult.  In some cases it is difficult to get the user to understand the information structure.  It is also hard to get the users to articulate their information needs.  Translating information needs into queries that the system can understand is also difficult for some users.  Lastly, it is difficult for users to evaluate the information returned by the system.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 1.6\tab A Brief History of Information Retrieval\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: surrogate, index)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 IR started out using the brute force method.  This method involved search through each document and determining if it should be retrieved.  Today\rquote s methods involve creating surrogates as well as indexes.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.1\tab Traditional Information Retrieval Methods\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: surrogate, card catalog)(out: inverted file index)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The first type of searching was done using surrogate records.  These records were a representation of the documents in the set.  The card catalog used in libraries was one of the first systems using surrogates.  The concept of inverted file indexes also emerged.  An inverted file is an ordered list of concepts.  Each concept points to one or more documents.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.2\tab Pre-computer IR Systems\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: Mortimer Taube, Uniterm, W. E. Batten, Clain Mooer, Zatocode System)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Many indexing systems were invented before the advent of the computer.  All these systems used cards to represent a concept.  All documents that related to a particular concept were represented on that card.  These systems included Mortimer Taube\rquote s Uniterm System, W. E. Batten\rquote s card indexing system, and Clain Mooers\rquote  Zatocode System.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.3\tab Special Purpose Computer Systems\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: Phillip Bagley)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Phillip Bagley was the first to suggest a special computer be created to search for documents.  Several computers and devices were then invented to satisfy the need to quickly search documents.  These devices included the Western Reserve Rapid Searching Selector, the minicard selector, the GESCAN Rapid Search Machine, and the Fast Data Finder.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.4\tab General Purpose Computer Systems\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, Hans Peter Luhn)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Due to the significant advancements in the general-purpose computer, it was no longer necessary to create devices specifically for indexing and searching documents.  The U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station was the first to use a general-purpose computer for an IRS.  Hans Peter Luhn created an automatic indexing program that used the inverse document frequency idea to index documents.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.5\tab Online Database Services\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: selective dissemination of information, Internet)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 An increase in the amount of science and technology literature after World War II led to the development of published indexes.  It was discovered that computers were able to produce such indexes.  Chemical Titles, published by the Chemical Abstracts, was the first subject index created by a computer.  Many others soon followed.  The database was created by manual analysis of the documents.  A person would create a surrogate for each document, which were then used by the computer to create the index.  The selective dissemination of information (SDI) was conquered next.  This enabled users to query document records stored on a computer.  As computer speed improved, the search time for these queries decreased.  This led the way for the development of commercial document query systems.  By the 1970s many different systems were available through telecommunications.  This technology eventually led to the Internet.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.6\tab Modern Experiments (SMART and Other Systems)\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: Gerard Salton, SMART system, TREC)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Documentation Inc. conducted the first retrieval experiment.  Gerard Salton\rquote s SMART system has been most widely used evaluation method since the 1970s.  The Text Retrieval Conference (TREC) is more recent evaluation conference.  It is conducted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 1.6.7\tab The World Wide Web\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: document)(out: WWW, hypertext, Internet, Tim Berners-Lee)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 The World Wide Web (WWW) uses a hypertext model to link documents.  Documents can include links to other documents, which can expand a concept.  This model is very similar to the human thought process.  It is an effective IR model.  The Internet is a network originally created to allow scholars to exchange documents.  It is based on packet switch network as apposed to a circuit switch network.  Tim Berners-Lee created the WWW by using the hypertext model.  It has grown astronomically since 1991.  It is now a tool used by billions.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 2\tab Data, Information, and Knowledge\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.1\tab Introduction\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: data, information)\par \pard\plain \s1\li360 \f2010 The differences in the definition of data and information as well as intelligence, news, meaning, and wisdom are not too important in the practical sense.  It is important how a person reacts to the information he receives.  It is important that a person react properly when the validity of information is questioned.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.2\tab Definitions\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 The definitions presented are merely the view of the authors of the book.  They are not presented as the only correct definition.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.1\tab Data\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: data)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Datum is a basically a group of symbols that make up the value of an attribute.  The data many not have meaning to given reader.\par \pard \s2\fi-540\li540 \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.2\tab Information\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information, Claude Shannon)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are many definitions for information.  Information is created from data.  It is the interpretation of data that created information.  Claude Shannon\rquote s definition of data stated that it is a measure of the absence of uncertainty.  Another definition states that information is data that changes the state of a system.  Lastly, information is what we use to make decisions.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.3\tab News\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: information)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 News is similar to information.  It is a message that a person receives unexpectedly.  The news is believed to be true.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.4\tab Knowledge\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: data, information)(out: knowledge)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Some people believe that data and information are the same thing.  Knowledge is never thought to be the same thing as data or information.  Knowledge gives the impression of understanding information.  It is usually believed to be true by a group of people.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.5\tab Intelligence\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: information)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In the context of IR, intelligence is the same as information.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.6\tab Meaning\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Meaning is difficult to define.  Words in a language can have different meanings and people reading the same text can find different meaning in it.  This is inherent in humanity.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 2.2.7\tab Wisdom\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Wisdom does not come from knowing information.  Wisdom is better defined as the recognition of relationships among observations.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.3\tab Metadata\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: data)(out: metadata)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Just about everybody knows that metadata is \ldblquote data about data.\rdblquote   Metadata can be further described as a description of the structure and content of a set of data.  Some examples of metadata are a library catalog and SGML tags.  It simply explains an information item.  Anything that helps the user understand the specified information is considered metadata.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.4\tab Knowledge Base\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: database, knowledge base)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A knowledge base is different from a database.  A database is used as a retrieval system, whereas a knowledge base is used to help someone perform a specific function.  Knowledge bases can be used to make decisions.  The stored information and information inputted into the system by the user are both used as knowledge by the system.  Knowledge bases can be in any form.  Some common forms are frames and rules.  A frame is set of information that describes an entity.  A rule is a conditional statement that determines the importance of a piece of information.  Knowledge engineers build knowledge bases.  These people are usually experts in their filed.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.5\tab Credence, Justified Belief, and Point of View\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: knowledge base)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Can a computer have credence?  A knowledge base can have credence in a way because it makes judgments on what information to provide based on the way it was programmed.  It is important to note that information, knowledge, meaningful, and wisdom are not inherent in the data.  They are something that a person possesses.  When a person has knowledge of a certain subject they are easily able to spot errors that can occur in data.  A novice user may have the same data and not be able to see the error.  This highlights the importance of communication between record creators and users.  It is important to realize that there are many different ways to express and idea and that must be taken into account when designing and building an IRS.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 2.6\tab Summary\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 When a person gathers new information, they will them take some action.  The action taken will be biased by their belief in and understanding of the information.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 3\tab Representation of Information\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 3.1\tab Information To Be Represented\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: bit, pixel, phoneme)(out: file, database, database design)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is possible to view data from several different angles.  Technically speaking data can be broken down its base unit.  This base unit could be a bit, pixel, or phoneme.  These base units are grouped together to create data.  Another view is centered on the meaning of the data.  In this view the most basic unit is an entity.  Entities are described using values for attributes.  All the different values describing an entity make up a record.  A set of records is known as a file or database.  An important aspect of database design is determining what information should be included in a record.  There are several issues including how to represent the information.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 3.2\tab Types of Representation\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Information is represented by symbols.  The database designer is responsible for determining how attributes will be represented.  The representation must be understandable to the users as well as the computer.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.2.1\tab Natural Language\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: natural language)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Natural language is the language that people speak.  It is means for people to communicate with each other.  Natural language is good because it enables a group of people to communicate with each other.  It enables people to express their ideas, feeling, and beliefs.  It presents a problem for computers because it is not concise and can be ambiguous.  It is difficult for a computer to interpret natural language text.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.2.2\tab Restricted Natural Language\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: restricted natural language)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Restricted natural language is not well defined.  It is a simplified version of natural language.  The rules for how to simplify the language are not specified.  One example of restricted natural language is command languages used in computer software.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.2.3\tab Artificial Language\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: artificial language)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Examples of artificial language include C++ and BASIC.  These are command languages used in computer programming.  They have a very restricted vocabulary and a strict syntax.  It can take a long time to learn an artificial language and be able to use it error-free.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.2.4\tab Codes, Measures, and Descriptors\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)(out: measure, descriptors)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx180 \f2010 Codes, measures, and descriptors are all strings of symbols that represent an entity.  The Dewey Classification Code is used to represent the subject of a library book.  Some other examples are bit maps and menus.  When the attribute values are limited, the data is more concise.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.2.5\tab Mathematical Models of Text\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: similarity)(out: vector space model)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 The vector space model is used to judge similarity between two documents.  In an n-dimensional space, each term is represented by one dimension.  The dimension can represent presence or can measure the importance of the term.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 3.3\tab Characteristics of Information Representation\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: information, entity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are several key tasks that an information representation must fulfill.  The representation must be able to discriminate between different entities, identify similarity between entities, allow accurate description of entities, and minimize ambiguity in the interpretation of entities.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.3.1\tab Discriminating Power\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)(out: discrimination power)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Discriminating power is the ability to distinguish between two entities.  A unique code value is the best way to differentiate one entity from another.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.3.2\tab Identification of Similarity\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)(out: similarity)\par \pard\plain \li360\tx360 \f2010 Classification codes should enable users to determine if two entities are similar.  The entities may not be identical, however they may be classified in the same group.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.3.3\tab Descriptiveness\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The description of an entity should be accurate and complete.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.3.4\tab Ambiguity\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: natural language)(out: ambiguity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Ambiguity is a lack of uniqueness in meaning.  It occurs often in natural language.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.3.5\tab Conciseness\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol)(out: conciseness)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The number of symbols used to represent a value measures conciseness.  Conciseness is helpful but can cause problems when searching and sorting entities.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 3.4\tab Relationships among Entities and Attribute Values\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: attribute, entity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is important to have the relationship between attribute values and the entities clearly defined.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.1\tab Hierarchical Codes\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: hierarchical structure)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Hierarchies are able to represent relationships between entities.  In a hierarchical structure each node must have one and only one parent.  Siblings are nodes that share the same parent.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.2\tab Measurements\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: ambiguity, discrimination, similarity)(out: measure)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A measurement compares an attribute with a specified reference point.  There are four types of measurements.  They are ratio measures, interval scale measurements, ordinal measures, and nominal measures.  Uniqueness in description, discrimination, and similarity are identified by measures.  Ambiguity is minimized by measures.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.3\tab Nominal Descriptors\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: nominal descriptor, keyword)\tab \par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Nominal descriptors are words parsed from text that are used to describe the body of text.  Keywords and subject headings are two examples of nominal descriptors.  Usually nominal values are taken from a limited vocabulary.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.4\tab Inflected Language\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: ambiguity)(out: inflections)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Inflections, such as prefixes and suffixes, can show similarities and differences between entities, however they can also cause ambiguity.  Ambiguity is minimized by controls used to conform different inflections.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.5\tab Full Text\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: similarity, ambiguity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Unrestricted natural language increases expressiveness, however it can also increase ambiguity.  If word usage is limited, similarity can be established.  Dictionaries and thesauri are used when word usage is not restricted.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 3.4.6\tab Explicit Pointers and Links\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: links, pointers, hypertext)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Links and pointers are also ways to establish relationships between records.  Hypertext is the newest type of link.  It enables users to link a word in a document to another document that is related.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 3.5\tab Summary\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: attribute)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In IR there are three major goals.  The first is to find records with unique attributes.  The ability to separate on set of records from other records is also important.  Lastly, it is necessary to define a set of similar records.  Accomplishing these goals is dependant on how the attributes are represented.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 4\tab Attribute Content and Values\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.1\tab Types of Attribute Symbols\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol, entity)(out: attribute)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 All attributes have a name and a value.  The value of an attribute is a symbol that represents and identifies an entity.  Numbers and character strings are two common types of attributes.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.1.1\tab Numbers\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 The most common types of numbers are integers and real numbers.  They can be represented in a computer in many different ways.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.1.2\tab Character Strings \endash  Names\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: attribute, database design)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Character strings can also be represented in different ways.  An example would be a person\rquote s name.  Similarity can be recognized only when a standard representation has been determined.  A major part of database design is determining how to represent attributes.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.1.3\tab Other Character Strings\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.2\tab Class Relationships\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 Records in a database are grouped together by having a common value for the same attribute.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.2.1\tab Hierarchical Classification\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)(out: hierarchical classification)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Hierarchical classification has a very strict structure.  An entity can only be placed in one class.  The entity is then automatically related to all parent classes.  This classification system can be too strict for some entity sets.  It is usually necessary for an entity to be related to two different classes.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.2.2\tab Network Relationship\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Network relationships allow entities to be related to more than one class.  The strict structure of a hierarchy is not enforced here.  \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.2.3\tab Class Membership \endash  Binary, Probabilistic, or Fuzzy\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: binary membership, probabilistic membership, fuzzy membership)\par \pard\plain \s3\li360 \f2010 In binary membership, an entity can either by part of the set or not part of the set.  There are only two options.  Bibliographic classification and indexing is usually done with binary membership.  Fuzzy or probabilistic membership is a little more interesting.  In this type of classification, it is possible to give weights to different classes.  For example, the user could ask for all books about lions with a probability greater than 0.6.  This gives more flexibility in classification.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.3\tab Transformations of Values\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol, entity)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sometimes two different symbols representing the same entity can have variations.  An example of this is fingerprints.  In order to overcome this variation, it is sometimes necessary to generalize a value.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.3.1\tab Transformation of Words by Stemming\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: stemming, Lovins\rquote  Method, Paice and Husk Method)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Stemming is one way to generalize words that are similar.  An example is the root work ELECTR, which is a generalization of the words ELECTRIC, ELECTRICAL, ELECTRICITY, and ELECTRONIC.  This method uses the semantic root word.  A second method uses words that sound alike.  Two different systems described are Lovins\rquote  Method and the Paice and Husk Method.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.3.2\tab Sound-Based Transformation of Words\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sound-based transformation takes words that sound alike and makes them look the same.  Soundex is an example of a sound-based transformation system.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.3.3\tab Transformation of Words by Meaning\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: thesaurus)(out: synonymy, antonymy, hyponymy, meronymy, troponymy, entailment)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The transformation of words by meaning is not a mechanical system.  Dictionaries and thesauri are used in this type of transformation.  Different words are related in the following ways: broader term, narrower term, related term, use, and used for.  WorldNet is a thesaurus created at Princeton University.  It relates terms by synonymy, antonymy, hyponymy, meronymy, troponymy, and entailment.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.3.4\tab Transformation of Graphics\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Usually graphics are transformed into text descriptions.  However, there are a few specialized systems that are able to store and search graphics for a generalized image.  One example of such a system is used in fingerprinting.  It is necessary to search for the generalize image due to slight variations in two fingerprints taken on the same person.  The query may return a set of records that are then matched by humans.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.3.5\tab Transformation of Sound\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Several systems have been developed that transform music into an encoded form.  These systems encode the first line of a song.  This enables users to get an idea of the melody.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.4\tab Uniqueness of Values\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 It is often necessary to be able to distinguish an entity from all the other entities in a set.  An example of this is a set of people.  There are many different ways to come up with a unique identifier.  One of the simplest ways is to use a sequence.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.5\tab Ambiguity of Attribute Values\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: symbol)(out: ambiguity, synonym, homonym, homograph, anaphora) \par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Ambiguity is caused by misinterpretation of the symbols representing a value.  Synonyms, homonyms, homographs, and anaphora all contribute to ambiguity.  One way to eliminate ambiguity caused by synonyms, or words that mean the same thing, is by using a controlled vocabulary.  Homonyms and homographs, which are words that sound or appear alike but have different meanings, are more difficult to deal with.  The meaning of these words are gathered from context.  When searching it is necessary to add synonyms or related words to find attribute values with the correct meaning.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.6\tab Indexing of Text\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: index)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 An index can take on many forms.  Many books contain a subject index and possibly an author index.  In library science, indexing is the process of pulling subject terms from documents and placing them in a form that can be used for search.  Three types of subject-describing attributes used in indexing are classification codes, subject headings, and individual words that describe the subjects.  These are all examples of descriptors.  Recently the focus of IR has shifted away from indexing, however indexing is still important.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.7\tab Control of Vocabulary\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: ambiguity)(out: controlled vocabulary)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The purpose of a controlled vocabulary is to reduce ambiguity in describing an entity.  A controlled vocabulary limits the number of values that can be assigned to an attribute.  It eliminates the possibility that two people will choose different terms to describe the same entity.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.7.1\tab Elements of Control\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: controlled vocabulary)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are four elements that are necessary to control a vocabulary.  The first is the vocabulary.  It must be a list of terms that is not changed often.  The second element is explanatory notes.  These are used to help the users choose terms.  The most common explanatory notes are dictionaries and thesauri.  Communication is the third essential element.  The record creators and users must communicate and agree upon the vocabulary.  Lastly, there must be a procedure to change the vocabulary.  \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 4.7.2\tab Relationships among Terms\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: hierarchical structure)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Usually controlled vocabularies are created using a hierarchical structure.  It is very important to store the different ways that terms are related.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.8\tab The Importance of Point of View\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: role indicator)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sometimes the meaning of a word can change based on the viewpoint taken by the user.  In an attempt to eliminate this problem, a role indicator is sometimes associated to a search term.  This role indicator specifies the viewpoint taken.  This does help eliminate the problem, however many believe that in the end the extra effort is not worth it.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 4.9\tab Summary\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 Basically, the users of a database must understand the symbols used to represent values in the database.  It is absolutely necessary to facility communication between the users and the composers of records.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 5\tab Models of Virtual Structure\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.1\tab The Concept of Models of Data\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: data structure, virtual data model)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A data structure is defined as a collection of data elements and the relationships between the different elements.  The model of data is a way to visualize the data structure.  The idea of a virtual image in optics and virtual memory in computer science are both discussed.  This idea is expanded to data models.  The virtual model is what the user sees.  If the user is able to interact directly with the virtual data model, then there is data independence.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.2\tab Basic Data Elements and Structures\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 The combination of single attributes into larger elements creates a data structure.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.1\tab Scalar Variables and Constants\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: scalar variable, constant)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A scalar variable is defined as a single instance of a variable.  Usually scalar variables are integers, real numbers, or character strings.  A constant is a variable whose value does not change.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.2\tab Vector Variables\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: vector)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A vector is a set of scalar variables.  An example is a set of patient temperature readings.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.3\tab Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: structure)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A structure is a set of data elements.  These data elements do not need to be of the same type.  A structure can contain scalar variables, vectors, and other structures.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.4\tab Arrays\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: array)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 An array is defined as a rectangular data arrangement.  A vector is a one-dimensional array.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.5\tab Tuples\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: vector, structure)(out: tuple)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Usually tuples are used when referring to relation databases.  A tuple is a temporary set of elements that can be taken from two different permanent files.  A tuple can only be made up of scalars.  Vectors and structures are not included in a tuple.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.6\tab Relations\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: tuple)(out: relation)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A relation is defined as a set of tuples.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.2.7\tab Text\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: scalar variable, array, inverted file)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Text can be stored in several different ways.  It can be stored as a very long scalar character string.  Text can also be stored as an array of words.  This structure enables an inverted file to be created.  The inverted file can be used to search through the text.  Lastly, text can be stored in a structure.  There is a big difference in searching between database management systems and information retrieval systems.  Searching in an information retrieval system is much more difficult.  To be successful, the user must have knowledge about the subject he is searching.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.3\tab The Common Structural Models\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: data model)\par \pard\plain \s1\fi-360\li360 \f2010 The data model can be used as a mental construct.  It basically shows the relationships between different data elements.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.3.1\tab The Linear Sequential Model\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: linear sequential model)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The linear sequential model is basically a flat structure.  Records are simply stored in a file.  There is little relationship defined between information elements.  The data is usually ordered.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.3.2\tab The Relational Model\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: relation, tuple, OR, AND)(out: relational model, select, project, cross, union, intersect)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The relational model is a set of relations.  Many relationships exist in a relational database.  This necessitates a powerful set of operations that can be performed on the data elements.  These operations are SELECT, PROJECT, CROSS, UNION, and INTERSECT.  The SELECT operator creates a set of tuples that meet the defined criteria.  The PROJECT operator narrows the set of attributes selected.  The CROSS operator combines two different relations.  The UNION operator combines two sets of tuples.  It is similar to the OR Boolean operator.  The INTERSECT operator combines two tuple sets, however it is similar to the AND Boolean operator.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.3.3\tab The Hierarchical Model\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: hierarchical data model)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The hierarchical data model relates data elements by allowing each element to be related to one and only one parent data element.  The root element is the only one that does not have a parent.  The hierarchical structure is very simple and easy to understand.  Searching a hierarchy can be quite complex.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.3.4\tab The Network Model\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: network data model)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 The network data model is similar to a hierarchy.  It is made different by the removal of two constraints.  The relationships between elements are more generalized.  The direction of the links is not stored.  There are also no constraints on the number of links between elements.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.4\tab Applications of the Basic Models\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: data model)\par \pard\plain \s1\fi-360\li360 \f2010 There are several types of databases that are not defined as models, but use the models already defined.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.4.1\tab Hypertext\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: database)(out: hypertext)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Hypertext is a database that is similar to the network model.  A node may be linked to any other node.  The database designer defines how the nodes are related.  Hypertext can be used to retrieve information, however searching is restricted to predefined paths.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 5.4.2\tab Spreadsheet Files\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: array)(out: spreadsheet)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 A spreadsheet file is very strict in its implementation.  It contains an array of structures.  The spreadsheet contains the data as well as the relationships between that data.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.5\tab The Entity-Relationship Model\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: entity, attribute)(out: entity-relationship model)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 The entity-relationship model is used to show interrelationships between data elements.  The model is described using four basic symbols.  The entity is represented by a rectangle.  Attributes are ovals.  The diamond represents a relationship between entities.  Lines are used to link the different symbols.  \par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 5.6\tab Summary\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 Many end users do not wish to learn the structure of records.  However this attitude may have to change as databases increase in size and people are forced to use IR systems.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 6\tab The Physical Structure of Data\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.1\tab Introduction to Physical Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: physical data structures)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 A basic understanding of physical data structures is necessary to be able to evaluate retrieval systems on the basis of cost and performance.  It is important to understand the benefits and costs of different structures.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.2\tab Record Structures and Their Effects\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: virtual record, physical record)\par \pard\plain \s1\fi-360\li360 \f2010 The elements of a physical record are similar to those of a virtual record.  The elements include the data elements and the defined relationships between the elements.  The location of each element in memory also must be known in the physical record.  It was not necessary to know this for a virtual record.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.2.1\tab Basic Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: fixed-length record, variable-length record, pointer)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The different basic structures are fixed-length record, variable-length record, and pointers.  In a fixed length record, all the data elements have a predetermined length.  It is easy to find a particular element within the record.  A problem with fixed-length records is the wasted space.  The variable-length records store the length of each data element.  It is more difficult to find a particular element, but space is used more effectively.  A pointer is a data structure that points to the location of the next data element.  This enables a variable-length record that does not have to store the length of each element.  This type of structure does not lend itself to searching.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.2.2\tab Space-Time and Transaction Rate\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: transaction rate)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Usually the time factor is more important than space.  This is usually what drives the decision of which data structure to use.  It is important to know the transaction rate of the system before choosing a data structure.  The volatility of a system is defined as the rate of change in the file.  Systems that deal with air traffic control and the stock market are extremely volatile.  This must be examined carefully.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.3\tab Basic Concepts of File Structure\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: file structure)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 There are several different ways to organize records in a file.  It is important to organize the records in such as way so that time spent reading records from disk to memory is maximized.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.3.1\tab The Order of Records\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: input and output (I/O), CPU)(out: time-sharing, multitasking)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Time-sharing and multitasking are important concepts in computer operation.  Basically, a computer will work on another task while it is waiting for input and output (I/O) to finish.  Compared to CPU speed, I/O is very slow.  It is important that the records be organized to optimize I/O.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.3.2\tab Finding Records\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: sequential search, index search, pointer search, hash search)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 There are four ways to find records.  They are sequential search, index search, pointer search, and hash search.  The sequential search starts the beginning of the file and examines each record until a match is found.  An index search uses another structure called an index to determine where the record is generally located.  The pointer search follows a linked list until the record is found.  A hash search uses the search key to go directly to the location of the record.  These search methods are implemented in five different organizational methods.  They are sequential files, indexed files, lists, tree structures, and direct access structures.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.4\tab Organizational Methods\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: file organization methods)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 All these file organization methods can be implemented in slightly different forms.  It is important to understand the basics so that costly software changes are not necessary later in a project.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.4.1\tab Sequential Files\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: sequential file)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sequential files store all data element together.  Usually they are sorted based on some key.  Adding and deleting records from a sequential file is costly.  Unless a files is sorted on the search key, searching can be very costly as well.  Searching is quite fast if a binary search is used.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.4.2\tab Index-File Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: index-file)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In an index-file structure the actual data is stored separately from the index structure.  The index contains the search key and the location of the record associated to the specific key.  This structure gives great searching capability.  If a lot of indexes are added for a file, updates to the file can become slow.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.4.3\tab Lists\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: linked list)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In a system where data is added and changed frequently and searching is rare, a list may be the ideal structure.  Pointers are often used to link lists.  A directory is usually used to hold the location of the first data record and the next free location.  The advantages of a linked list are the flexibility and the efficient use of space.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.4.4\tab Trees\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: tree structure)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A tree structure is defined as a set of record linked together by two or more pointers.  Usually the structure is based on a key value.  A value is stored at the root.  All records with the key value above that are store to one side.  All records with the key value below are stored in the other direction.  In a balanced tree, the two sides always have the same number of records.  This structure enables fast searching.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.4.5\tab Direct-Access Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: direct-access structure)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 Direct-access structures are also known as hashing and mapping.  This method uses the value of a data element to determine the location of the record in memory.  There are many complex hashing functions used throughout the industry.  Searching is incredibly fast using this method.  The amount of space needed is one disadvantage.  Another problem occurs when two values hash to the same location.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.5\tab Parsing of Data Elements\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: indexing, stop list)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 It is often useless to index large text fields since users will rarely type in the entire text during a search.  The user is more likely to search for a particular word within the text.  For this type of searching, it is necessary to use keyword method of indexing.  There are different ways of doing this.  One method is to index every word in the text.  However, this uses a lot of space and indexes words that are not useful for searching.  Another method is to use a stop list.  This is a list of words that are not indexed.  In some cases this may cause problems in some specific searches.  It is also possible to have humans index text.  The problem here is that people are not consistent with each other.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.5.1\tab Phrase Parsing\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: phrase parsing)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 In phrase parsing, the entire attribute is used together for indexing.  A good example of this is a person\rquote s name.  Usually, the entire name is used for indexing.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.5.2\tab Word Parsing\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: word parsing)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In word parsing, the different words in an attribute will be split up and indexed individually.  This helps the user who is not sure of the complete text that he is looking for.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.5.3\tab Word and Phrase Parsing\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: phrase parsing, word parsing)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sometimes word and phrase parsing are used together.  This method uses more space, however it makes searching easier for the user.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.6\tab Combination Structures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: data structure)\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 It is possible to combine different data structures for information organization.  In practice, many of these structures are used.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.6.1\tab Nested Indexes\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: nested index)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A nested index is used when a regular index will not fit into memory.  In this structure several extra indexes are used to index the index.  The secondary indexes only contain selected entries from the original index.  This uses memory more effectively and makes searching faster.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.6.2\tab Direct Structure with Chains\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: direct structure with chains)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 This information structure combines hashing with linked lists.  This eliminates the problem of collisions in a hashing structure.  When a value is hashed to a location that is already taken, it is simply linked to the first value.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 6.6.3\tab Indexed Sequential Access Method\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: indexed sequential access method)\par \pard\plain \s2\li360 \f2010 This type of organization has three sections.  They are the main file, the index, and the overflow area.  In the main file records are stored in order by a particular key.  A record will be stored in a particular disk sector.  The index is used to provide the location of a particular record.  Since the main file is a set of ordered records, there is usually empty space built in for records that are added at a later date.  The overflow area is used when the empty space is filled.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 6.7\tab Summary\par \pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f2010 When storing records it is possible to put them in a random order or to order them by a key value.  It is usually necessary to have some order to the records.  Searching is done by an index or by hash function.  Using a function is the fastest way.  Most database systems use a combination of different organization methods to take advantage of the strengths of each one.  \par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 7\tab Querying the Information Retrieval System\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 7.1\tab Introduction\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: query, information need)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The purpose of an IRS is to fulfill the users\rquote  information needs.  It is important to realize that judgment is needed to translate a user\rquote s information need into a query that the IRS can understand.  This judgment can come from a person.  In the case of a natural language IRS, the judgment is within the system.  A query is defined as the user or intermediary\rquote s statement to the IRS.  It is usually stated in a query language.  A successful query is one that retrieves all the information the user wants without a lot of unwanted information.  This must be done at a reasonable cost.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 7.2\tab Language Types\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: query language, procedural language, nonprocedural language)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are two types of query languages.  They are procedural and nonprocedural.  A procedural language is a set of commands, such as select, print, and logoff.  A nonprocedural language is used to tell the IRS what is wanted.  The IRS determines how to get that information.  Many users like graphic query representation systems.  This type of system shows the query graphically.  Menu-based languages give the user lists of options.  The return set is limited by what the user chooses.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 7.3\tab Query Logic\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: database, information need, false drop, recall, precision)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A database is usually thought of as sets of records about sets of entities.  When a user queries the database a subset is pulled back.  Most of the records in the set returned answer the information need.  There may be some records that are unwanted.  These are called false drops.  When querying the database, the goal is to maximize recall and precision.  Recall is the percentage of relevant documents found out of the possible relevant records.  Precision is the percentage of relevant documents out of the set retrieved.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.3.1\tab Sets and Subsets\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: set)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Each set represents a subset of the database.  This set is the records that satisfy the query.  The user is usually given the number identifying the set and the number of records in the set.  A null set is one that has no records.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.3.2\tab Relational Statements\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: attribute)(out: set)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A set is defined by the relationship of an attribute and a value.  An example is publication date = 1987.  Each record can be calculated to be true or false.  There are four types of relationships.  They are equality, inequality, string containment, and range.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.3.3\tab Boolean Query Logic\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: AND, OR, NOT, EXCLUSIVE OR)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Boolean algebra is the most common method of querying databases.  It defines the operations that can be performed on sets.  There are several different operators.  They are AND, OR, NOT, and EXCLUSIVE OR.  The AND operator specifies a subset as the records that are in both sets being used.  The OR operator takes all records that are in at least one of the sets.  The NOT operator uses one set.  It specifies all records that are not in the set.  This operator can be used incorrectly if the user is not careful.  The EXCLUSIVE OR specifies records that are in one of the two sets, but not in both of them.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.3.4\tab Ranked and Fuzzy Sets\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: ranked set, fuzzy set, weighting of terms)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Ranked and fuzzy sets are different from Boolean sets.  In Boolean sets, a record is either in the set or out of the set.  In fuzzy sets the line delineating the two sets is not clearly defined.  In Boolean sets, records are given a value of 1 or 0.  In fuzzy sets, records can be assigned any value between 0 and 1.  If a user asks a question that is not well defined, they would not expect a set of records that is well defined.  Weighted terms can be used within a query.  Usually when used in a Boolean query, the weighting is used to put the records in order after the set has been created.  Word lists are also used to query the database.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.3.5\tab Similarity Measures\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: similarity, relevance feedback)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Once a user has found one record that they need, it is very easy for them to say they need more like it.  Measuring the similarity between records can do this.  The query interpreter treats the original record as a vector of unweighted words.  Another method is relevance feedback.  The user rates a list of retrieved records.  The IRS then uses this information to retrieve other records.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 7.4\tab Functions Performed\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Each IRS is different in appearance, however they all have the same basic functions.  Systems may name these functions differently.  \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.1\tab Connect to a Remote IRS\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 This function can also be called logging on.  Usually this is initiated by dialing in through a telecommunications network.  The user must then be identified.  The system will display any informational messages and connect the user to the default database.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.2\tab Select Database\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: database)(out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Usually the user chooses which database to search.  It is common today to be able to search from more than one database.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.3\tab Search the Inverted File or Thesaurus\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: inverted file, thesaurus)(out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The inverted file or thesaurus enables users to search for terms and their synonyms.  It is also possible to determine how many documents the term occurs in.  The relationship between terms is documented in the database.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.4\tab Create a Subset of the Database\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (pre: pointer)(out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The subset is defined by a set of specifications.  This can be a series of statements or Boolean combinations.  Usually, the subset is a list of record numbers and pointers to where the actual record is.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.5\tab Search for Strings\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are several different issues that arise when searching for strings in text.  When searching for a word it is important to remember that there can be several different forms that mean the same thing.  For example, electric is the same thing as electrical and electricity.  By using the wild card character, it is possible to find all words beginning with electri.  This can cause an increase in false drops.  In the case of green*, all text containing greene, greenleaf, and greenspan would be returned.  In many systems it is possible to use a wildcard and specify how many letters can replace the wildcard.  A few systems allow the wildcard at the beginning of a word.  However this uses a lot of resources and should only be used on small sets.  Most commercial systems do not allow this.  It is also possible to search for phrases, however they must be stored in the inverted index or thesaurus.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.6\tab Analyze a Set\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions, ZOOM)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is common for a user to retrieve a set and then analyze it to make modifications to the query.  The query is then rerun to find records that are a better match to the user\rquote s information need.  ZOOM is a command used to perform frequency analysis on a retrieved set.  The user is able to set which attribute is used in the analysis.  In some systems the modifications are automatically made to the query.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.7\tab Sort, Display, and Format Records\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Once the subset has been defined, it is necessary to define the display format for the records.  Users are able to define which records are displayed as well as what information is displayed for each record.  Some systems give the user freedom in defining where the information is on the screen.  It is also possible to sort the records.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.8\tab Handling the Unstructured Record\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Since there is no central control over how web pages are designed, many do not have the standard structure.  This makes formatting these records difficult.  There are some groups trying to standardize HTML labels.  One example is the Dublin Core Metadata Element Set.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.9\tab Download\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions, download)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Download is the ability to make a copy of and then transmit a file across a communications network.  Copyright law places some restrictions on this.  It is illegal to resell downloaded information.  It is against the law to download documents and make multiple copies for distribution throughout a company.\par \pard\plain \s253\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx0 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.10\tab Order Documents\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 In some systems, documents are not directly available.  There are only references to the documents.  This has been a criticism by some users.  Most systems now give the user the option to order the document through a separate service.  Eventually, technology should be able to enable a downloadable document that can be printed out as a high quality document.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.11\tab Save, Recall, and Edit Searches\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Many IRS offer save, edit, and recall options.  This enables users to save queries for future use.  The recall and edit options let users get old queries back and make changes to them.  It is usually not included on the World Wide Web.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.12\tab Current Awareness Search\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions, current awareness, selective dissemination of information)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 This type of search is used to give the user a view of new or changed information.  The information is given to the user based on a user profile.  This profile can be updated to change the type or frequency of the updates.  This technology is known as selective dissemination of information (SDI) or push technology.  An example is a user who is notified when a particular stock price moves a specified dollar amount.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.13\tab Cost Summary\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is usually library or information centers that need to track cost information.  The type of information that is used to determine cost is connect time, search terms used, records retrieved or displayed, and telecommunications costs.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 7.4.14\tab Terminate a Session\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Session termination is especially important in systems where costs are involved.  Many systems log users off after five to ten minutes of inactivity.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 7.5\tab The Basis for Charging for Searches\par \pard\plain \s5\li360 \b\v\f2010\fs20\cf4 (out: information retrieval system functions)\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Previously, the basis for charging for online searching was connect time and storage.  Today it is more complex.  Connect time, number of records displayed, number of search records, age of the records, number of query terms, and format of the display can all be used to determine cost.  In the future there may be more charged for search and retrieval services on the web.\par \pard\plain \s255\fi-432\li432\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx432 \b\f2001\fs32 8\tab Interpretation and Execution of Query Statements\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 8.1\tab Problems of Query Language Interpretation\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Parsing is the process of analyzing a language statement and breaking it into its parts.  Problems can arise when parsing due to ambiguity caused by natural language.  Many times the context is needed to determine the meaning of a word.  The expressiveness of natural language can even mean different meanings when the emphasis is changed from one word to another. \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.1.1\tab Parsing Command Language\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The parsing process involved a left-to-right scan of a statement.  Each word is checked to determine if it can legally occur in that position.  Each line should begin with a command.  A knowledge base is used to determine what parameters should follow the command.  Many different kinds of typos can cause problems in the parsing process. \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.1.2\tab Parsing Natural Language\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Parsing natural language is very complex.  It is necessary to reference a dictionary that can have 100,000 words.  It is also necessary to determine the part of speech for each word as well as apply any syntax.  Since natural language is so complex, it is very difficult to parse.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.1.3\tab Processing Menu Choices\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A menu is a list of choices that the user can choose from.  There are several ways for the user to choose from the menu.  They are typing a choice number or letter, typing the text of the choice statement, or moving the cursor to the choice and hitting enter.  This type of layout is simple however sometimes the user is not sure of what each option does.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 8.2\tab Executing Retrieval Commands\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The different functions used to execute a retrieval command are the same throughout most retrieval systems.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.2.1\tab Database Selection\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 A database is selected by issuing the command and then a database name or number.  Also included here is preparing tables used for parsing records and computing costs.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.2.2\tab Inverted File Search\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The inverted file is searched to find the terms the user is search for and what records those terms occur in.  A sequential search is possible in small sets.  Most of the time searching is done using an index or a hash function.  Also stored in the index is what attribute the term is stored in.  Word numbers are also included if proximity searching is supported.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.2.3\tab Set or Subset Creation\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Sets are created using Boolean operations.  Usually these operations are fast.  Other operations can be executed against the set to reduce its size.  These include the contains operator, which searches for a word within other words in the text.  This type of operation should only be performed on a small set.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.2.4\tab Truncation and Universal Characters\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Truncation involves using a wildcard character to search for all words matching the truncated version of the word plus any other characters.  This can be time consuming if the set is large.  \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.2.5\tab Left-Hand Truncation\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Left-hand truncation can be very costly if run against a large set.  This type of operation places the wildcard character at the beginning of the term.  Unless the index is set up to handle this type of searching, it is necessary to search through each term.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 8.3\tab Executing Record Analysis and Presentation Commands\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The following functions are usually not developed well in most system.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.3.1\tab Set Analysis Functions\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Set analysis requires analysis of the frequency of occurrences of values or combinations of them.  The records are then displayed in order with the most frequent records first.  Another form of analysis is co-occurrence analysis where the records with the term occurring most frequently in two attributes is listed first.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.3.2\tab Display, Format, and Sort\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The format is the way each record should be displayed on the screen.  The page size, orientation of the page, selection of attributes to be displayed, and placement of fields and labels are all details that need to be defined.  The display mode can be scrolling or record-by-record.  Records can be sorted in most systems.  In some systems, the user is able to specify the display, format, and sorting options.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.3.3\tab Offline Printing\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Offline printing is used to reduce costs.  If a document is printed while the user is still on-line, the connect time is increased.  Usually offline printing involved many records and is done later in the day when loads are less.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 8.4\tab Executing Other Commands\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 These commands are usually used for more traditional systems.  Most WWW systems do not use these.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.4.1\tab Ordering\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 This function involves ordering the full text document after searching for it in a retrieval system.  This is done when the full document is not available for download or viewing.  Usually the search service remains neutral to what vendor is chosen to sell and deliver the document.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.4.2\tab Save, Recall, and Edit Searches\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Save, recall, and edit of searches is necessary so that the user can save and then modify and reuse searches.  These queries can be stored on the same computer as the retrieval system or can be saved on the user\rquote s computer.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.4.3\tab Current Awareness\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Current awareness is also known as selective dissemination of information (SDI).  This type of search is run against the most recent information stored in a system.  The new information must be stored in a new inverted index that can be merged into the main index at a later time.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.4.4\tab Cost Summation and Billing\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 There are three different parts that affect billing.  They are connect time, session and search.  The connect time is defined as the total time the local computer is connected to the remote system.  The session is the set of activities that take place during that time.  A search involves the commands used to solve a problem.  The actual formulas used in individual systems varies from system to system.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.4.5\tab Terminating a Session\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Several things happen when a session is terminated.  The total cost of the search session is calculated, any system storage space used by the user is released, and the telecommunications connection is disconnected.\par \pard\plain \s254\fi-576\li576\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx576 \b\i\f2001\fs28 8.5\tab Feedback to Users and Error Messages\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 \par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.1\tab Response to Command Errors\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 When an error occurs the user should be given an explanation of how the program interpreted the command, the point it discovered the error, and why it is an error.  Sometimes the computer is not able to decipher what the error was.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.2\tab Set-Size Indication\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is important to notify the user of the set size.  This is an important factor in deciding when to stop searching.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.3\tab Record Display\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The format of the records displayed to the user is very important.  This is most important feedback given to the user from the system.  In some systems the user is able to choose from several formats.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.4\tab Set Analysis\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 Since the amount of data given to the user can become overwhelming, it is best to let the user request set analysis information.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.5\tab Cost\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 It is helpful for the user if the cost of the search session is displayed throughout the session.  This should be a brief summary so that it is not distracting to the user, but is informative.\par \pard\plain \s253\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn\tx720 \b\f2001\fs26 8.5.6\tab Help\par \pard\plain \li360 \f2010 The help portion of most systems is seldom used in systems today.  Part of the reason for this is that they are designed poorly.  The help system is usually used by the user to understand the most recent system message.  It is important to give the user a specific explanation.  The best help systems are able to analyze what the user has done and what the system response was.  The next step should then be explained to the user.\par }